Mikayla and I have been in a committed relationship for the past few years. To my memory, we began dating around 2020, just before the pandemic, while I was still working at Cineplex. We met off of Bumble, a dating app, while she lived in Orillia, a small town far from Toronto. We got along well and we decided to enter a relationship shortly after our first few dates; it was around this time that we made arrangements for her to stay with me at my parents, at Yonge/Finch in Toronto, in a condo. During this time, I was, alongside Mikayla, working at a Community Service firm facilitated by Youth Employment Services while undergoing the process to receive my ADHD diagnosis and for the medication upon diagnosis. It was additionally, while we were living at my parents, that we experienced a severe amount of turbulence revolving around our futures, how long we wanted to stay at my parents, and if the emotional stressors of living with my mother was enough for her to leave. These feelings of uncertainty contributed to a strained period of time in our relationship that lasted for several months without any clear end or certainty that we could observe. It is my belief that these themes of uncertainty, whether it is unease with our individual futures or trust, have actively permeated and poisoned the relationship and must be alleviated immediately, whether through co-operation or mutually-agreed-upon termination.

In conjunction, another key point was her turbulent relationship with her father, whom she had elected to live with in Toronto. On the condition that she study UI/UX Design Online at a program that her father had chosen and monthly (relatively reduced) rent payments, her father had offered her his basement apartment for her to live in indefinitely. This created several points of conflict as we would override his over-exerted authority on who she was allowed to bring into the apartment, his infrequent audits of the amount and frequency of work she was doing within her UI/UX program, and the overall disparate condition of the upstairs areas where her dad lived. She noted several times that he had struggled with hoarding, his post-divorce-with-Mikayla's-Mother relationships with women, and his controlling behaviours. These issues ultimately culminated in an incident with her father after about half a year of living in his basement apartment. She was with with me late one night past the curfew her father mandated, and because it was late, asked her dad if she could stay. Based on my recollection, this frustrated her dad intensely to the point that he threatened to displace her belongings in the apartment onto the curb. Mikayla expressed that she thought he was bluffing until she received a text from him with a photo of her things outside. Following this, she made plans to live with a friend, P, and to retrieve her curbed belongings with P, myself, as well as the Police. I noted that she had responded fairly aggressively to her father in the instigating text, that she seemed to have several issues with authority, and a weakness at following through with mutually agreed-upon obligations.

It was during this time that it become apparent to me that Mikayla shared many commonalities in terms of behaviour that I associated personally with ADHD/Autism. This included emotional disregulation, inhibited executive dysfunction, and an tendency to hyper-focus on extremely specific activities. Often, I would feel unusually tired, and this would result in what seemed to me, a build-up of resentment within Mikayla. This caused issues due to my disinterest in sex, recreational time with her, and a dislike for socializing with friends in person. I recall feeling unfairly judged for physical symptoms that I was trying to persistently manage. These issues were present in spite of me taking my prescribed stimulants, keeping my diet in check, and exercising regularly. When we were on a walk during the evening, I remember her pressuring me to have sex with her outside; after I said "no", she was visibly cold afterwards. She would also sometimes lash out at me verbally, refuse to participate in social activities I tried to engage her in like gaming with my friends, and frequently refused to leave the bedroom we shared. I noted these down into consideration, as well as what I saw earlier with her dad, and felt that it suggested a strong possibility of her having ADHD; it was and is my thinking that with treatment, our quality of lives would benefit greatly. While we did not deeply explore the possibility of her having ADHD immediately, when I was accepted at Tangerine for my first full-time job, they had a generous benefits package that fully covered her assessment (I paid for mine out of pocket). This was extremely uplifting for the two of us, but this seemed to be a precursor to further issues down the line:

As that year continued, the discrepancies in employment and priorities was becoming an increasingly large issue. At the time, her most recent job was at a camping store called Camp Connections which one of her mother's friends had helped her obtain a position there. After being evicted from her dad's, she could no longer feasibly work at Camp Connections, as P, her friend she was now living with, was located in Brampton. As a result, she had to subsist on savings for quite some time as we developed moving in together. She had let me know that she was focusing on completing her UI/UX Design program, for which she paid out of pocket for, and that she would look for work post-completion. As someone who has not gone on to post-secondary yet, this felt like a natural decision to make; I did not anticipate however, the lack of progression both academically and employment wise that seemed to have lasted almost a full year. This contributed greatly to the amount of stress between us. She began to experience interpersonal issues with P and her family, as it seemed there was familial issues for P which, systemically, led to negative residual effects on the trust and honesty between P + P's family and Mikayla. This significantly raised the urgency on finding a place for both of us to live independently, especially as Mikayla would often visit me at my parents into these months at P's. The issues with P came to a head later on, which, ironically, led us into the same position as which we started: both of us, unhappily residing together in my parents' condo unit. This was made worse though since Mikayla's family also moved to Gravenhurst, a remote community much further than Orillia, creating many logistical issues with attending Family holidays and a pseudo-long-distance relationship. For me, this created a great sense of stagnation, especially as I became increasingly aware of the procrastination on Mikayla's UI/UX Design Program, and her reasonings that she cited for the active procrastination. These reasons included that she did not feel passionate about UI/UX design, that she was coerced into studying UI/UX by her father, and that she would not be able to find employment in a competitive field. I expressed frequently my doubts about some of these reasons, the timelines she had proposed, and whether there was something more that she would enjoy. She did eventually finish the program, but this had sowed the seeds of a few more doubts I would continue to have.

I very vividly remember an unexpectedly intense argument with Mikayla on whether Medieval Tymes was a viable place of employment, given that she had a post-secondary certificate and skills that would help with securing higher-paying positions. I also noted an incident where she had went to great lengths to doctor her grades for her UI/UX program in order to receive an agreed-upon cash reward for a high average. These 2 incidents made it supremely uncomfortable for the future on how to consider if Mikayla was acting genuinely, emotionally, or dishonestly. I did not confront her in any meaningful way beyond expressing my discontent and immediate moments of frustration during brief arguments surrounding these incidents. This was primarily because she was, with the program finished, actively looking into employment within Toronto. She eventually landed on a position at an NFT startup *Ism Toyz* that focused on the manufacturing of toys, as well as the minting of NFTs called *Golemz*. Her position was to initially paint various toys and paraphernalia, however, this was on a per-job basis. Fortunately, this provided enough pay for us to finally move in together while I was within my first few months at Tangerine. Over-time, however, the volume of work for her started to become inconsistent, receiving only a few jobs a month; she asked her employer if they would be able to hire her for a full-time position, and to some surprise, they were looking for a digital artist on their NFT *Golemz* project. She interviewed for the position and was subsequently selected, given the immediacy of her portfolio shown by the work she had done on the toys. This resulted in a much higher pay, albeit in Ethereum, a cryptocurrency, allowing us to fully sustain ourselves with a much more livable amount of active stress. During this time, I also swapped employers to Venngage from Tangerine, a digital-content makers platform, and was very excited for my first software industry position. Circumstances seemed to be extremely positive for the next few months until the crypto slowdown of this time rolled in shortly after, as well as the newfound knowledge that Roxy, Mikayla's childhood dog, would be euthanized as we had heard from Mikayla's grandmother that Roxy was suffering from significant health issues. 

It was the effects resulting from the progression of Roxy's planned euthanization, Mikayla's loss of employment, and my subsequently termination at Venngage, that I believe still plague our current relationship to this day. Mikayla learned, after leaving for a few days to visit Roxy at her grandmother's, that Roxy was, contrary to the previous opinion, in apparent good health. This led to an immediate discussion of whether her grandmother was fit to continue caring for Roxy given her decision to euthanize an otherwise healthy dog. It also, more importantly, led to a discussion of *who* was to care for Roxy; to note, Roxy has actively severe dental issues that we are looking to make payments for, we had already adopted 2 cats, 1 of which was also suffering from issues with their dental health, and Roxy is about 16 years old as of writing. Mikayla proposed that we take care of Roxy, to which we mutually agreed to take on the shared responsibility of Roxy in spite of her being geriatric. I anticipated a large monetary cost in doing this, but given my new employment with Venngage, and Mikayla's new position, that we would be in good financial health to handle increasingly more difficult responsibilities. Unfortunately, around this time, as I mentioned earlier, the Crypto Winter began to set in, slowing down sales and revenue of the overall market significantly. This, in turn, was what led *ISM Toyz* to terminate Mikayla's employment and a successive, strained period of our relationship. Mikayla's termination created many immediate issues as we would not have the required funds to support the pets and us, especially when we were inexperienced with maintaining a budget or strong routines. In the same way, Mikayla also made a decision to pursue and build a case for her unlawful termination, a decision I expressed my disagreement for, and one that lasted a prolonged duration of months. We experienced heavy turmoil during this time and I began to feel increasingly more impatient and unforgiving of a refusal to share housework, her refusal to seek employment while building her case, and her refusal to consider attending University. I do note that this is likely where a perceived change in my attitude and behaviours might have formed, but I also want to emphasize the implicit boundaries, that although were not clearly laid out, I still consider to have been present on some mutually agreed upon level.

One boundary was the sharing of responsibilities, financial, living, familial, and otherwise. We came into 13 Castle View with the expressed expectations of sharing housework equally, as well as financial responsibilities equally. I do not recall it being explicitly pointed out that a disparity in salaries would actively be maintained while the other individual works a position with lower pay. My position at Venngage, although unknowingly would turn out to be short-lived, paid $50 000 a year, while my previous position at Tangerine paid $40 000 a year. I do not believe I have anything inherently attractive in my credentials or qualifications. I do not have post-secondary experience of any kind, my working experience was at the time limited, and I genuinely struggle with ADHD and corporate social settings. I feel very bitter about missed opportunities, especially academic opportunities. Correspondingly, seeing Mikayla persistently refuse to seek employment, minimize criticism, and continuing to purchase hobby-related items, I felt increasingly claustrophobic in relation to our circumstances. She occupied the opposite paradigm to me to which she had both more diverse work experience AND more work experience (at the time), had obtained an Associate's Degree, had the pathway to pursue University or College. I felt that these points continuously developed a sense of resentment towards her that I tried to express to her multiple times, cultivating a sense in me of "unheardness" and distrust of her. Our arguments towards this time began to skew to hurtful personal attacks, and I note that she more frequently began to refer to her dad for comparison to my behaviour. I recall that I actively avoided calling Mikayla any names during our confrontations and that I would push for mutual resolution, by for example, using an iPad to visually describe our thinking. These attempts were usually rebuked and would generally now climax in me breaking various objects around the house to the point that an end to the relationship was considered several times. These started to happen more frequently post my termination at Venngage, caused by bickering on the topic of delegated responsibilities regarding Roxy. Somewhere during this time as well, the idea of PMDD is brought up, which is a condition I did not actively research until recently, and I begin to call out the cyclical chronological frequencies of our arguments in relation to her menstrual cycle. She has not fully acknowledged any accountability for her role in reducing the level of trust I have in her as a result of these past incidents.

I worked extremely hard post-termination to find employment; I recall tailoring resumes exclusively for specific postings online, and repeatedly testing myself on the best way to interview and be interviewed as a candidate. In doing this, I increasingly noticed the absence of effort in job-finding with Mikayla, who would regularly spend large portions of the day playing video-games. I did eventually land a position at my current workplace, Street Context, with a starting salary of $60 000. A year into the position, I have been promoted and now earn $70 000, with a ~$10 000 bonus in on-call work. Throughout the past year, I have been increasingly critical over the inequities, inequalities, and imbalances in our relationship. I have noted that I have been regularly attending psychotherapy and making check-ins with my well-being, especially as I struggle with arthritis-like symptoms in my lower back, neck, and shoulders. To begin, it was only until nearly a year into my position at Street Context that Mikayla finally received employment as a Beauty Boutique assistant at Shoppers, exaggerating the earnings imbalance in our relationship. I have noted that she also freely criticizes me for carrying debt that I am trying to pay off, despite us taking on 3 pets and her infrequently making efforts to cook homemade meals. She has not consistently attended psychotherapy, is not actively pursuing any hobbies or skills without coercion, and has increasingly attacked me for my admittedly increasingly physical displays of anger and frustration. She has also recently compared my behaviour to her father's multiple times in the last months, a claim that I intensely feel fails to examine any of the underlying problems or lead-up to our most hostile fights. She has also issued multiple ultimatums for me to attend anger management, to be sensitive to harming others during physical outbursts, for me to re-take an SSRI, and for me to accept her emotional outbursts without physicality. Conversely, I do my best to emphasize mutual understanding and logical problem-solving, but I feel that over the recent months, that this increasingly has become one-sided. I am apparently unable to regulate my emotions consistently anymore and in general, my impatience and intolerance for any displays of neuroticism has grown. I am becoming significantly more irate as the issues I have addressed and examined in the earliest points of the relationship have not been addressed as it relates to her dishonesty, a lack of effort to mutually co-operate or act equitably in any substantial way, and her increasing neuroticism as it relates to untreated PMDD/ADHD. I consistently feel my concerns are minimized and I am reduced to either throwing a tantrum, acting like a manchild, or acting like her father. I do not think that the issues here are fully her fault, as I should be more stringent with my own personal boundaries, but I do think that there is a clear case of me being treated unfairly, judged unfairly, and characterized unfairly and it is made worse by a vaguely present line of neuroticism and potential manipulation.



and, as well, this was considering that Mikayla had applied for Game Design at various Colleges. We likely do not have the same conclusion as to if she is pursuing post-secondary or not, and I strongly doubt that she has any structured plans for her future at this time. 



This program also alerted me to a current issue I have with Mikayla and that is her tendency to lie for her benefit. 